i could have been stronger i could have
stood up for myself
yep right so like like any time i try to
blame her
you're gonna say like i should have been
stronger
like you're gonna protect her by blaming
yourself
and so can you start by just telling me
um what i should call you today or what
you go by
you can just call me by my name gabriel
i think i'd actually prefer that because
it's gonna feel a bit more personal if
you don't mind okay sure
so gabriel and what did you want to talk
about today
so there's a few things uh i wanted to
you know uh introduce you to my past a
little bit so to speak because i think
it's gonna be helpful i'm a very open
person so
i don't really have an issue talking
about the
the [ __ ] i went through pretty much okay
and
uh something really good is happening to
me actually i
had some pretty severe social anxiety it
was
very bad pretty much and i came across
your content like two months ago
and your stuff and the interviews i
watched so many of them by now that
it has helped me so much like the
meditations the alternate nostril
breathing
like i'm doing a lot of stuff and it's
being very helpful and
senior stuff actually convinced me to
see a therapist as well because i was
very resistant for years and years i was
like
you know i always had that feeling of if
there's something wrong with me
and i can't fix it myself then no one
can and i was just like
i'm not gonna go see a therapist like
[ __ ] up it's not useful i had that
kind of mentality pretty much and
i saw your stuff in our cycle this guy's
a therapist he's pretty cool i guess
you know i'm gonna try at least and so
i'm seeing this therapist that's
actually
a friend of my family and it's been
great we we clicked
so it's nice and it's part of the topic
from today
i've dealt a lot with my anxiety and
it's a lot better
and then i'm noticing that underneath it
there's like this layer of
what i call depression it may or may not
be i don't actually have a diagnosis to
be honest
but you know for the longest time i
thought i didn't do things
just because i was anxious and then more
and more i lowered my anxiety
i noticed that there's something lying
underneath
that's like a total lack of motivation
focus concentration it's
you know i just don't have that impulse
i kind of don't want to call it an
impulse because it kind of has a bad
connotation to it but i don't have the
impulse to do the things that
i know i want to so i can rationalize
that i want to do something
but it's like my body doesn't respond in
a way
and my senses also feel very numb it's
like
it's gonna sound weird to put it this
way but i'm very into philosophy so
bear with me here uh it's like i see
things but i don't perceive them and
it's like i hear
things but i don't comprehend them and
it's like i touch things and i do not
feel them
that's kind of it
gabriel dude you're a poet my friend
thank you i actually wrote a lot of
poetry during high school i mean
yeah i know i mean you certainly have a
way with words i think you captured
the resistance to see the a therapist
and honestly the best way i've ever
heard
thank you which is which is that i i
mean the scent of it was perfect it's
like
if i can't fix it no one can fix it
right it's so weird
it's like this kind of weird
self-reliance that like i should be able
to do
this and if i can't do this there's
something wrong with me
and if there's something wrong with me
no one outside of me is going to be able
to fix it right
it exactly and yeah because as human
beings
started to interrupt i didn't notice you
were going to keep talking sorry here we
go
as human beings we are so like unique
and have so much individuality
and we like notice things on such a big
scale that the problem can like feel so
huge to us and you're like yeah nobody's
facing this there's no way
yeah absolutely um
let me just
um so let's start with your past then
gabriel so maybe we can help you kind of
unpack things understand
what's underneath by all means be
philosophical bro
thank you thank you um yeah i think
that's a good place to start as well
you know my first therapy session that's
basically what i unloaded into my
therapist that's the word i used right
i didn't tell them i unloaded like all
of my past and that
took like one and a half hour to two
hours don't worry i'm not gonna do the
same here because it's very enough time
but
uh basically you know
uh my father was very nice he was pretty
you know he was that type of
intimidating guy that liked to
win over people by being intimidating
and
forcing them to agree with him in a way
so he was a very oppressive
presence around the house and
where do i even start like sometimes he
would get home drunk and he would beat
me for no reason so
that was a lot of fun i remember
specifically at this one time i was just
sitting in the couch watching dbz and he
just like he just
walks in and he i was like you get five
or six five before
he just walks in and he's like straight
up he's just holding me
up like one leg in the air it's just
like
beating my hands and here and
if i try to remember how i felt like i'm
not even sure i was just like
i'm not even sure i knew what was going
on i just kept staring at the tv i just
kept watching
i was like i don't know what's going on
and he had a bunch of friends with him
as well
i heard them laughing that kind of
happened but
i think you know my child mind made it a
point to not look around
because you know i didn't want to see
the people that were laughing at me it
was just like
you know i'm just going to stare at the
tv i'm not going to look around
kind of like you you maybe were seeing
but not perceiving
yeah i never thought of it that way
actually but
yeah absolutely absolutely and so i
don't know how many times he will do
that my memory gets kind of foggy i
think it's
sort of a protection mechanism maybe
some things i
can't really remember well so uh he was
very like that
there would be a lot of arguments in
that house and a lot of screaming and he
didn't get along well with his brothers
as well like
sometimes they would pull knives on each
other like troll drawers at each other
some real [ __ ] up [ __ ] actually at
this one time my father was out
in the garage so the way that house is
set up is kind of like
there's a staircase for you to go inside
and that staircase
when you go down it garages and
like there's a window it's kind of hard
to explain but basically um
my father and my uncle were having an
argument through this window
you know one down into the garage and
the other one you know up
near the kitchen area and like they just
straight up take a [ __ ] drawer and
chuck it through the window there's
glass everywhere straight up trying to
murder each other in a way
but they never did they're both still
alive
so that kind of thing would happen a lot
and
my father also wasn't a fan of my
expressive outgoing extroverted
personality because
he's the type of guy that has that
mentality that a man should be serious
and you know stone-faced
you know it's not supposed to have a lot
of feelings or
no i was a little fried firecracker i'm
very energetic so i would be jumping up
and down sometimes i'd be running around
thousands
you know my father was having none of
that [ __ ] pretty much
so he wasn't very happy about it he was
also
you know he had a lot of i don't even
know how to say this but basically he
was homophobic
because i behaved it that i behaved that
way he believed that meant that i was
gay
you know because i was very expressive
and all that kind of thing
and so he would say things like you know
i'm not going to raise no gay son and
all the classic stuff and so he
really like tried to beat that my
personality out of me because he didn't
like it and
he thought it meant that i was fruity
and all kinds of things so it wasn't
very fun
being around him and basically what
happened was
you know i guess it's pretty obvious
from everything that's going on there
would be a divorce when i was like six
uh he and my mom got separated and
i remember feeling very confused at the
time because i didn't know who i wanted
to stay with and it wasn't actually
because of my father because
at my father's house he lived together
with my grandma his mother
and one of my uncles that i really liked
his brother
because we would play a lot of games
together it's like uh his room would be
a safe haven for me i would just walk in
there and
start playing especially because my
father
along with with this brother than my
uncle he wouldn't like interject
very much on what we were doing inside
his room so
yes he was just like i don't want to
talk to this guy so
whatever so i liked my grandma
quite a bit so i was very confused on
where i wanted to stay and i would
like live four months and with my mother
and then four months with my grandma and
my uncle and at the time my father was
getting
uh busy doing uh nurse stuff because
he's always been into medicine that's
something he wanted me to do he was like
you know he noticed that i was very
smart from the young age and he was like
i'm gonna mold you into this thing
but just very annoying type of thing
where he was like um
i never managed to be a doctor but now
because i [ __ ] up you're gonna be a
doctor if you're gonna be like this
blah blah blah all that kind of stuff
eventually i would settle on uh living
with my mother because
my grandma and uncle also started being
quite unpleasant
i want to say in the beginning it was
cool and then
they started criticizing my mother a lot
saying things like she was misusing the
child support money that she should be
buying
clothes and you know main courses for me
to learn [ __ ] but there you know the
reality
of the matter is you know i was kind of
bored into
poverty here in brazil and so
that child support money she had used to
pay rent and i would always explain it
to them like
you know what do you expect you want me
you want her to buy me clothes
then we're just going to sleep under a
bridge or something that doesn't make
[ __ ] sense
so they would criticize her unfairly
because they were just like
it wasn't fair at all just unfair
criticism very much
my uncle was becoming more and more
bitter i don't know what was going on
with him at the time
and my grandma she like spoiled me way
too much so it's like
total contrast between my father and my
grandma where
my father would have a totally
oppressive aura about him and those
things he wanted me to do that i was
gonna do
and then my grandma on the other hand he
was she was too far
you know on the other end so for example
i remember going to a preschool and it
was on the same street
actually the same street where this
house was the preschool was just like
right across the street and all you know
it's like that either you had one job
she had one job that was to uh wake me
up at like
6am or something for me to get ready and
she'd be like
oh i tried to wake you up but you you
weren't waking up so
you know just i i felt bad so
and so i would miss a lot of school days
because of it she like she felt bad
waking up to go to
preschool or whatever you know six
and something that was very bad that
used to happen while i was living there
too
and in this period where i kept going
back and forth
was actually there would be nobody
around the house for the most part so i
would stay in there alone all day
because my father and my grandma would
be working all day and i can't remember
what my uncle was doing for some reason
but
she also would not be home so i would
stay home alone all day
and i wasn't allowed to go outside with
other kids so i didn't have any friends
at that point
and i would also like may start uh
starve a fair bit because you know i was
all alone in the house i had nothing to
eat
and so here comes you know another part
of my grandma
spoiled things that weren't very faces
she would come home
after a day where i you know didn't have
anything to eat
and she would offer me like cookies and
stuff like that it's like
that's not what you should be giving me
and i was no too young to know any
better but anyways
eventually that would cause me to
actually have some sort of uh
issue with my eating i'm not sure what
it was no i was too young to actually
pay attention
but that's gonna tie into later
when i'm living with my mother
consistently and i never protect her
to live at least i did some visits
and unfortunately she would have this
guy come over to liverpool who would
become my stepfather he
would also be abusive to me in a similar
manner to my father
and you know it's in some points he was
worse than some he was better so
people are different even interviews
right the
individuality of humanity
and i remember specifically i
ended up having these stomach issues and
that was one of his biggest like
problems with me because uh
i would go you know have breakfast uh
at the the kitchen desk or whatever you
call it english
and i'd sit there like for three hours
trying to eat a loaf of bread like it
was really hard for me i was having some
real
and he would get so mad over that [ __ ]
actually
so just one time and
a fair warning chat if you have a weeks
or if you're having lunch right now just
just stop for a bit uh i was trying to
have my lunch and i would stay basically
all day
because my mother would be working she
was the provider and
he would take care of me
uh i was having lunch and i just
couldn't eat i
ate like two spoons of it and i just
couldn't eat anymore
so he forced me to eat more and that
caused me to
vomit all over the plate and then if
that wasn't bad enough he also made me
eat a spoonful of the vomit that i just
you know so that wasn't very nice either
it's one of the more uh things that
marked me that i can remember about that
time because i'm sure there were
all other kinds of [ __ ] that he would do
to me but my memory just
it's like i said i think it's maybe a
protective thing i don't know because i
can't remember much else but
uh the feeling was very bad it was like
my mother is going to work she was the
only
family member that was fair and kind to
me but she would also
instill some you know maturity like my
grandma
so like my mother was the the star of my
my world standpoint so
she would leave and i would be alone
with my stepfather and was like well
i guess now i know i'm alone with this
guy maybe i'll eat my vomit today again
you know
who knows what's gonna happen so
sounds like it would be important for
you to eat it but not taste it
you're good
i never thought about it like that
either so
yeah and it was rough for my mother too
she actually ended up
developing depression over the years
living with this guy because
you know she will tell him to [ __ ] off
and leave the house because she didn't
want him leaving
us anymore and he just would not do it
for like
three or four years she would keep
telling him to go away and he just
wouldn't
because you know it was a free easy life
for him he didn't have to work
my mother was providing for everything
and when we
picked him up so to speak uh his father
had just like
thrown him out of her house because he
refused to get a job he just did drugs
all day
or whatever and so his mother was very
pissed at him and
threw him on his house and my mother
took him up
you know my mother is a very kind person
she would eventually fall in love with
him and all that stuff
in the beginning he wasn't so bad he
just he transformed into a total [ __ ]
dick over the years and said
so like at first he was that kind of guy
you wouldn't look twice at it's like
you know just normal but eventually that
would cause problems so she would fall
into depression keep telling him to
leave her home he wouldn't
eventually he did but at that point i'd
say a lot of damage had
had been done to me already sounds like
yeah he had a similar thing to my father
where
he would also call me gay and all kind
of stuff because of the way i just stick
with a lot and talk you know and all
types of things
and like sometimes i wonder like if i
was actually homosexual how hard it
would be
because i'm not even then these things
you know still affected me like imagine
if i actually was
i think i'd have a lot more trouble too
but
yeah part of the sad thing about this is
my uncle would get in on it
my mother's brother in this case not
from the family of my father
so this uncle of mine uh brother to my
mother was also getting you know
making fun of me for acting and moving
the way i did
but all that kind of good stuff so they
just kind of would come in here
and basically leech of homeowners work
because they would turn on the computers
and use the internet to play like
grand chase at the time it was a level
up game or whatever
and you know while they were doing that
they would take the opportunity to rip
on me and
all kinds of [ __ ] you're talking about
your your uncle and your stepdad
yeah okay okay they will join forces
a malevolent force
okay so
that was kind of what family life was
for me i was always very oppressed for
being too well going too loud too
extroverted
i was like damn i should have been born
into a italian family nobody would have
had an issue with me but
you know that wasn't the case in fact
uh so my cousin sorry there's some
loud thing going on in my street right
now i hope that doesn't bother you but
i don't hear anything actually okay
that's good
that's good i'm super like conscious
about the noise because i'm using a
phone as a mice
a lot of things get picked up uh
what was i saying i have a lot of mind
by the way you can tell
i think that's what they mistook for
homosexuality
um yeah so can you just tell me a little
bit so it sounds like you gave us a
little bit about your upbringing
and um can you tell us a little bit
about the social anxiety
yeah so i think it's connected like i've
made a lot of observations
uh myself along the the years and part
of my
annoyance at myself is that i knew so
much about the roots of my issues but i
could never solve anything
and that's like without a lot of your
content has provided me like
ways to deal with it because i've always
been very good at noticing so the whole
social anxiety thing is like
i i definitely see it as you know my
natural personality that was so
oppressed by my family and then
eventually it would become oppression
during the repression because
i would take those ideas that i should
not be that way and i wouldn't implement
and internalize
them so school wasn't easy for me either
i was always bullied a lot and i didn't
have a lot of friends so like i was
[ __ ] at home i was [ __ ] at school
like ironically the place i felt the
safest
was the streets between my home and
between the schools like
in the streets i'm the safest so
i got bullied a lot too for being 12
goalie uh
the kids used to call me [ __ ]
because like i was always laughing too
much and making too many jokes
so that would happen as well and i
remembered that i had to specific
during the elementary at some point
where i was like you know i'm gonna turn
myself into a machine
so like that was my goal i was like i'm
gonna take all these things that people
are saying you know
people pick on me for and i'm gonna just
shove it all inside
like it's not gonna come out and people
i'm not gonna be a target
anymore that's kind of how i learned to
deal with it
and what would happen eventually is that
2013 or 2014
after going through a long process of
shoving all the [ __ ] inside
i would have my first panic attack which
i see you know as those things coming
out because whenever you repress
something it's gonna blow off in a
certain way so i ended up having these
panic attacks
and part of the social anxiety issues
that i was having is connected to all
this
in the sense that uh you know probably
because of what i was taught and how i
internalize things if um
if i go in and i talk to people and i'll
be myself
people are gonna make fun pretty much so
that would cause me anxiety
because then what i would do is you know
i would put on the mask on like so much
of us do it's like i can't let that come
out so
i'm gonna put on this mask on and the
problem with putting masks
is that it's like an eagle thing that
strives for perfection so you know i'm
going to go into the social
situation and i'm going to act
mathematically in a
specific way and so people aren't going
to see the real me
yeah hopefully they're you know not
going to make fun of the mask and i was
pretty good at it too
and when you have that perfectionism
of having to put on the mask and what
that ego and all that
[ __ ] jumble together that causes a lot
of anxiety because you get
like performance anxiety right it's
almost like you're going on a stage
it's like i have to you know do this so
that's my understanding
and so tell me a little bit about it
sounds like the the
social anxiety has gotten better
yeah it has gone so much better you have
no idea like
a lot of it is thanks to you the
meditation the
so much it's been amazing yeah you're
i'm glad things worked out for you it's
kind of you know it's weird gabriel like
i was thinking one of the downsides of
streaming is that i never
get to follow up with people right
and and so it's kind of interesting i
never had this thought until now so i
was thinking that part of the problem
with streaming
is i can never show people step two i
just keep showing step one
over and over and over again but there's
something strange that's happened over
the last week and hearing you
talk about it uh hearing you kind of
share because like you're already giving
me
everything like you're packaged in a
sense like in a good way right like so
i think you've like figured out and so
like in in about 15 minutes
20 minutes you're able to do a lot of
what takes
we normally spend an hour and a half on
doing so the interesting thing is like
we may actually be able to take step two
today
um which i never normally i take step
two with the same person because we you
know we meet for a couple of weeks and
stuff like that but
i think there are potentially like other
concepts or advanced concepts that i
never thought i would get to
on stream because everyone um
you know but it sounds like you all are
learning
and so that's pretty cool um
but let's kind of talk a little bit
about uh
you know so after as the social anxiety
has gotten better what have you managed
to uncover instead
um like there was just
it's like i said i don't actually have a
diagnosis but it feels a lot like
depression or at least aspects of it
in the sense that my understanding of it
is
maybe i'm wrong my understanding of it
is i've been depressed this entire time
but i didn't realize it anymore because
my anxiety was like at
such a peak so if my depression is here
my anxiety was like here
and so like my anxiety was just so loud
and deafening that i could not notice
the depression anymore and as i'm
i'm noticing that down here there's
still like a big issue where
i it's like i was saying it like my
cognitive functions are just
not okay it's very hard for me to
actually focus and learn things that
i used to be very good at and there's no
motivation to do things
it's like i'm detached from reality in a
sense like it's not
i don't feel like i'm a part of my room
right now for example it feels very
weird
because back when i used to be mentally
healthy in a circumstance
i would always feel like i was a part of
my environment like
it's like things had a presence like
it's hard to put into words but
like the desk i'm using right now it's
like this desk has a presence to it even
though it's not a living thing
and i was all i would always be able to
perceive like the presence of the
objects around me it's just
like there's nothing there everything is
kind of a shade of gray
and my mind is also very like scattered
and foggy
sometimes i'll have like good thoughts
because like i i'm planning on actually
starting a philosophy
channel and writing a book and actually
those are things that i want to do
and sometimes i'll have a thought that's
like oh that's good so i record it to my
phone
and i'll take my phone to record it and
i'll press record and then
it's like between my mind and my mouth
like things just get lost sometimes
it's disappears in the midst it's very
hard to explain
okay so what are some of the other
things that you've noticed
have come up as the anxiety has gotten
better
that sounds pretty hard so why do you
call it depression
well it's kind of like because of a
thing i used to feel before so i gotta
feel you feel your wind on this actually
uh i was playing actually competitive
daughter for a while
i mean like 2014 to totally something
so what happened was uh my cousin
introduced me to
the end of 2013 and that was during my
high school periods where
you know i didn't have any friends and i
kind of hated everyone i had a big ego
at the time i was like
you know all these people they're just
stupid i'm not gonna associate with any
of them
which was also a defense mechanism at
the time because you know
people always rejected me so my thought
process was if i reject them first and
they can't do it
so i would just like disqualify and you
know
lower everyone in my mind so that you
know i'm the one rejecting all of you
now
suckers so i didn't have a whole lot of
friends with that attitude obviously
i just gave to myself so i was playing
dota and through dota like i was amazed
i fell in love with the game because
i've always been very good at games
actually and i was picking up the game
so fast and learning so fast and i
didn't even know if esports at the time
like i had no idea that was a thing
actually
so i would see an art easy screen event
and like
he had like 10k viewers and he was
playing the whole chat was vlogging and
i was like
wait people liked us a lot i had no idea
what's going on here
and when i would watch dota tournaments
it was back when zyrie had like
dreads or whatever and i thought that
was so cool i was like man
you know that guy's working like that
it's like it felt to me like a community
where you could really be yourself
is what i'm trying to say like that guy
is himself he's being himself he has
this haircut
and he's doing all this cool [ __ ] so i
always felt like i couldn't be myself in
the real world
but in the daughter the online gaming
community i was like yeah
and i'm gonna have value as a player and
then people are gonna have to pay
attention to
my thought process and i was actually
doing very well
i was like playing very well i'm still
more touring currently i don't want to
replay anymore
i think i'm not like 6.3 km bar and the
only reason i'm giving you all these
details is because i know you know about
it
it's gonna be helpful uh what would
happen unfortunately
it was something that was absolutely so
crushing to me because
though i was pushing everybody out and
just focusing on dota and i had a
pessimistic view about
people around me i i didn't feel
depressed at all i actually felt like
very obese i felt like my feelings were
justified
and i would embrace them like hey i
[ __ ] hate these people i don't care
let's play shorter
you know i still felt good basically
and that was until i had my first panic
attack so when i was going to school
second year of high school
a friend used to come here for us to go
to school together
and when we were approaching the the end
of the street i just
my body just did something it had never
done before it was a very weird
experience so
it's gonna be kind of hard to explain as
these things are but
it felt like everything was moving like
a speedo light around me
and at the same time nothing was moving
it's like
everything was moving what uh at the
speed of light
okay around me it felt like the road had
just like evolved into light speed in a
millisecond
and there wasn't even anything going on
like the street was completely empty
there were no cars like there was
nothing but
in my mind like everything was just so
fast and rushing and
it felt like i could see like 10 years
into the future or something it was some
really scary [ __ ]
and you know i told my friend to stop
like i couldn't even speak because i
felt like i'm not in my truth and i
just you know signaled to my friend i
was like wait
like took a deep breath
and i was like okay i think i'm okay so
we went to school that was the first
time that happened
and what would end up happening is
you want to say something yeah i'm just
trying to figure out
uh where so it sounds like you talked
about dota now you're talking about a
panic attack
i'm not quite sure how this relates to
[Music]
what depression feels like for you
underneath the anxiety
it's about to connect sorry i know it's
a big tangent to just okay
uh what would end up happening is i
would have this more and more frequently
when it was time to go to school
so eventually i just told my mother like
i don't want to go school anymore
because
every time i just merely think about
going to school or i know that i'm going
to have to
like my body my nervous system would
just completely [ __ ] itself pretty much
so i told her like i don't want to go
anymore
work you know i'm talented just cut out
there for a second i don't want to go
any more what
yeah i don't want to go anymore because
i felt
really bad just at the thought of having
to go to school and i was telling her
you know i'm going to do this dota thing
do i know what i'm doing i'm talented
it's gonna work so i don't need to go to
school anymore
you know all that just pretty much and
she actually allowed me like
she put her trust in me because i was
speaking about it very confidently and
she was like okay i trust you and and
then a terrible thing happened and this
guy's is why you don't run away from
your feelings because
i run i ran away from school because i
was feeling panic attacks in there
and daughter was always completely fine
i would get home from school
sure and then what happened was is these
attacks transferred over to when i had
to play dota
it was absolutely terrible so like i
would kill up press find
match and divide i felt like there was a
hand in my throat a lot of times like
there was something just crushing it and
i would always just like be dry heaving
and coughing
and i would have to like pause in the
middle of matches to run to the bathroom
and just throw one
then i i would come back and keep
stomping noobs but i would be throwing
up
so it's going to tie into your question
it's about it i promise
so well what happened was this you know
it was a very soft rushing process to me
because all i had was
you know i had shoved people out of my
life involved like
i don't want anything to do with any of
you and i had a big ego of like
you know i was that which is good at
dota you know
it was my identity and like
when that started getting taken away
from me for something that was out of my
control like i felt so [ __ ] crushed
it was like there's nothing left
involving like for me it's
like this thing that's my passion and i
love so much and i'm doing well at it
now my body is breaking down and
i can't really do it anymore so that's
where i started getting depressed
in the sense that everything just lost
meaning at that point
and because you know the only thing i
loved was taken away from
that sense i couldn't do anything and
you know i was a stubborn [ __ ] still
at the time so i didn't go seek any help
from my panic attacks or anything maybe
i should have done that but you know
who knows what happened in that parallel
universe but
it everything just felt really bad and
that my i felt my
emotions start to numb so like i wasn't
really there anymore and i would refuse
to eat as well
i remember this one time i'll just
no longer eat and something very bad
happened because i
wasn't really eating properly for like
two days straight and
it's like my head was spinning a lot
every time you moved it i couldn't
really walk very well
so my mother found me i wasn't even
gonna tell anybody it's like
i was ready to die in a sense i was just
sitting in my room in my bed not eating
anything
and i couldn't really get up very well
anymore and i was like you know i don't
care
i don't have anything so whatever and
like my mother opens the door to my room
and she's like like you're okay you
haven't come out in a bit and
she comes to check on me and i just told
her like very matter of fact
actually i can't talk right now because
i'm feeling this way and no no
so like she gave me strain at the time
she came she held my hand
and you know you have to snap out of it
kind of thing
so i started eating again and eventually
i would recover
but i wouldn't really feel anything
anymore i would be numb
for a very long time for maybe like
three years
and then after those three years just
being completely numb and be in my room
not doing nothing i didn't go out i
didn't get a job nothing like that
didn't get any new friends
but after that time of three years just
in that deep state of what i believed to
be depression against little diagnosis
uh what happened is that my anxiety
picked up and that's what i have lived
for the past like
five years of my life just baseline
anxiety that i told you about
so now that i am rid of it i'm seeing
that maybe there's remnants of
that point in my life and that's why i
call it depression that was a very long
tension thing
yeah so let's we'll talk about tangents
in a second but so so
i'm still curious about what you
experience on a day-to-day basis
that makes you use the word depression
that's what happened back
then what do you experience today
uh it's less what i experience and it's
more what i don't experience
it's a lack of experiencing things what
are you ignoring what do you not
experience today what's missing from
your life
color connection are you
sad no actually that's something that
bothers me a lot
because it's like i don't feel the
emotions like i want to feel sad i want
to cry sometimes and i just can't
and i don't think that's normal okay
okay so gabriel we got to talk about
tangents for a second okay
so now you ready for the level two
explanation so there yes
you're gonna have to be careful because
if if if
i if we want me to help you
i don't need your conclusions i need the
raw data
so one thing that's happening right now
this is a double-edged sword it's
neither better nor worse
so on the one hand we can cover a lot of
ground but i think we're still like
missing a lot right so you basically
you've watched it's clear you've watched
it sounds like videos so you kind of
know what kind of
questions i ask you're sort of sharing
like particular traumatic
moments um but you're kind of giving me
the package
the problem is that like if you give me
the you've set up the problem in a
particular way
where there is a answer yeah i didn't
need to do that
yeah i understand so so that's that's
what we're sharing it right so like no
one's done that before because
you did what i usually do which is fine
i hope you're not
it occurs to me maybe i'm shaming you
but like
yeah so like i think there's because
honestly there is a lot of good stuff in
there but like i i think that
um i
i would like it if i could ask you
questions and you try to stick to the
answer don't give me the conclusion
because i'm i'm hunting for raw data
right so like when you like i'm
absolutely fascinated like i have so
many questions for you about
why sa is toxic and like why do you guys
show up on usc
servers like you know
like i have tons of questions for you
love that you shared that you know you
tried to go pro dota and
stuff like that i i do think you're
you're genuinely like you're
creating a lot of value by offering like
some of the nuggets that you've learned
like i
imagine that could help a lot of people
um
because you certainly have a way with
words but if we're talking about helping
you
you know i like so my my question is
like you know i have some questions
about your upbringing like how do you
feel about your mom
see it's hard for me to know what i feel
i have to think yep
good that's what i that's what we want
right because usually when i ask you a
question you'll give me like a narrative
that connects and has a
you know a finale yeah
yeah sorry so
uh i know it's not a very nice thing to
feel but we don't control her feelings
but
i felt like she could have done better
in a sense just you know
having recently separated from my father
and like going so quickly into a
relationship with a guy she
didn't know enough about i think you
know i would have liked if she
put a little bit more thought into what
that would have done to me
but it's not like resentment i don't
feel any resentment towards sort of
like with like that's uh
the house here i live it it's me and my
mom so you know
we live together we we're both there for
each other we help and we support each
other we have a really good relationship
would you allow yourself to feel
resentment towards her
when i was younger it was a lot easier i
used to feel it a lot back in elementary
and things like that like
you know like how could it
it was like how can she allow this to
happen like this guy to do these things
you know
and what was the answer you came up with
there was no answer if i'm being honest
so how did you deal with that
just smile you know good old fashioned
just stuffing
how does it feel talking about it now
it was kind of unfair i feel like i was
robbed of something
what were you robbed of
can be something upbringing where i
could connect emotionally with the
adults around me probably
and who's who robbed you of that
well you could make an argument it was
my father first and foremost if he
hadn't been such a dick
in a sense you know she kind of dropped
the ball later as well
no everyone has their issues okay
so now i'm going to invite you to notice
what you did when i asked you that
question
right so what was the first thing i
don't know if you remember because it's
hard
so i said who robbed you of that and
what was the first thing you said
nope technically you said you could make
an argument
right which means if we think about it
do you
blame your father
oh i've done that i know but when i ask
you that question who robbed you of that
what was the answer that we got
does the answer indicate that you blame
your father
no no what was the next thing that you
said
that my mom dropped the ball
and then you said something else
yeah it was some rationalization i can't
even remember very good
right so like it's really interesting
how does it feel when we kind of unpack
things and like i'm
i'm blaming your mom you feel that
how does it feel to have me blame your
mom
it doesn't feel bad actually i i think
you know it's reality whether we like it
or not
okay
so you feel okay with me doing that
yeah i don't mind okay
can i think for a second sure
okay i should have said no damn it
what are you up to nowadays
i have some things i want but that's
future so what i'm up to right now it's
basically just self improvement i'm
really trying to you know
uh figure myself out and so i can have a
moral life again kind of thing
so i watch a lot of your videos i do a
lot of meditation i have
been trying my hand at the whole uh
dopamine detox thing because
i don't actually feel like playing any
games anymore that's part of what i
consider depression is because it's not
just about the games
i actually don't feel like doing
anything so
do you feel like improving
sometimes it's very sporadic sometimes
i'll have a day where i'm like
oh i really want to do this thing or
really play this game that's like
once every two weeks maybe
okay um
so we've got a couple of options gabriel
okay
so one option is we can kind of like in
a sense almost start from scratch i
think i can ask you
questions in a particular way
that will lead to maybe a
crack within your emotional shell
um i think we both know where those
questions are gonna go because we've
seen
you know all of your transparency and
even as you're thinking about it i can
see there's changes in the way that
you're sitting
in the way that you're thinking you know
you've had a smile on your face for a
while and sometimes as we get close to
something like you haven't needed to
deflect
much right but there are like very few
times where you'll
you'll deflect you'll block right
because
like it sounds like a and and we you
know we can talk about that if you want
to
um we'll see i i think you are
well defended so i don't i don't know
that that's actually the best use of our
time but if that's what you want if you
want to like cry on stream we can try to
help you get there
okay i think you are quite intellectual
and there are other things going on on
here which
i i'm i'm almost inclined to
meet you on an intellectual level which
is very different from what i would do
in therapy but i think like we're here
to teach really more than to do therapy
so i think that there are like a lot of
important principles or lessons to be
learned because this is actually a
i'm kind of offering this today because
it's a rare opportunity where someone
comes in
and has already understood so much of
what we usually do
so it gives us a unique opportunity but
i think for you
you know some people come on here and
they have this kind of like emotional
catharsis and then they like start to
make changes in their life and it's like
i just got a dm this morning from
someone you they were being really nice
a prior stream guest that was like hey i
just wanted to say i've like
benefited a lot and like i'm realizing
things in a new way like
i don't i don't know that if we go the
sort of academic or intellectual route
i don't know how much it will actually
help you as a person
i think it'll be very intellectually
satisfying but like would you like to
understand yourself from a high level
or would you like to like feel yourself
on an instinctive level like what do you
want definitely
definitely what i'm missing is the
feeling and i like that you used
instinctive because
that's always like how i've been
avoiding like very connected to the
the animal side of the human being let's
say where
i've always felt things very strongly
instinctively and now i don't feel them
anymore so that's where all it sounds
tells you okay that's gonna be tough so
let me think about this
okay i may wind up going the
intellectual route anyway
all right it's your show
yeah no let me just give me a second
okay
oh [ __ ] hold on
when was the last time that you did feel
a lot
oh long ago holy [ __ ] it's gonna be hard
to remember
probably back then because i considered
2014 the year i died in a certain sense
because
that was when i was having the panic
attacks in total and from that point
onwards i remember specifically
for some reason i don't know why uh
august of 2014
i'm not sure what's up with that date
but i remember that from there
onwards i haven't felt a whole lot
okay so it's like five years give or
take maybe
when you think about the traumatic stuff
that happens to you
that happened to you do you feel any
emotion
no it's because it's it's why i joke
about it i'm not really feeling anything
too
dramatic
it may be just part of my personality
too because i have that kind of
personality where i'll make fun of
serious [ __ ] and i have offended people
in the past let me answer
can you tell me about writing poetry
yeah actually this this is going to be a
little bit embarrassing
so i used to fall in love very easily
during my school years
and a lot of the poetry i would write
would like be specific for a girl i was
in love with at the time
and i would like show it to her and
she'd be like that's [ __ ] stupid
country
because you know at least like you know
public schools in
lower income areas in brazil it's a
rough crowd
i'll say that much there were kids that
with problems probably worse than mine
in a sense so people weren't very happy
with the kind of
you know very happy with me in a sense
because i was too happy and like a world
boy three about love
and and what do you
how how long has it been since you've
fallen in love
oh it's been a long time as well and
i i had some like in cell issues for a
while in the sense that
you know i've never been reciprocated so
you know for a while there
it's been a long time maybe seven or
eight years where
you know i actually blame the women and
all that stuff but
it's not like that anymore i realized
that i was at fault at the time because
i kept constantly trying to fill in a
hole that i handed me by
you know acquiring partners so to speak
so i know it was completely my fault but
it's been
we're in 2021 maybe four years
okay
how do you feel about yourself
uh i feel like i am capable of a lot of
things
and it frustrates me that i did not
how does it feel to be someone who is
incapable
of doing what you're capable of
feels very weak uh cowardice
in a sense also
maybe
uh some resentment towards myself too
can you feel that resentment
yeah it's liking my stomach right now
okay and what do you feel in your
stomach
it's gotten heavy on and over
okay
what do you wish you were
is gonna sound like some philosophical
[ __ ] but they in their meet that i
know that i am
what's it like to not have access to
that person
very disheartening uh
disappointing and also maybe
uh rage inducing even though i don't i
can't feel a lot of anger
it feels like i have anger in me
somewhere
it feels that way i guess how do you
know you have anger in you
it's a very instinctive thing i can't
really explain it
it's like i i can kind of just tell that
it's in there somewhere
that there's no logic to it okay how can
you tell though like
you know it's kind of a weird question
but
it's it's sort of like like how does
your mind
know how do your neurons know to produce
the word
rage inducing
i have no idea but i but i do embody the
concept that we aren't just our minds so
but yeah it's just michael bs
it comes like from somewhere i don't
know the soul
but that's philosophical right like so
so like in a very
practical sense when i ask you how you
feel about yourself
right what i'm hearing is like
there's some like you're there's it's
rage inducing
like the way that you live your life
pisses you off
yeah because i've had this thing of kind
of seeing myself in the third person for
a very long time and it's like i'm
watching myself
ruin my life by inaction and it's
it's raging basic and what are you doing
about ruining your life like you can see
everything
gabriel what are you doing about it
well i'm trying very hard i'm watching
videos i'm seeing a therapist
but it's like
they're but it's it's a yeah it's as you
said there's something missing i don't
know what it is
exactly what's missing
me yeah more importantly whose fault is
it that it's missing
who's responsible for finding it
definitely me and how does it feel to
have
not found it yet
very frustrating it's like it's why i
gave in a little i tried for so many
years and then i'm like you know i'm
finally gonna see a therapist because i
was trying really hard to do that
and i had a lot of pride about that as
well like i'm a smart
i could figure this off so i had a lot
of broadband how do you feel about
seeing a therapist
it's been great but i absolutely agree
do you feel weak
yes because back then when i was
you know when i shoved people aside and
i had a big eagle
and all that i felt very strong i wasn't
like
i didn't like pick on other people or
intimidate them but i would always stand
up for myself i was a strong guy and
where people would always like be lazy
or falter like yeah i'm not going to do
this like i would go and do it i
just have so much presence to me and
none of it is here anymore that's what
makes me feel weak it's like i have no
presence
and i know it is my fault because i made
it a point to
disappear with my presence because it
was making people make fun of me
sounds like you screwed up gabriel yeah
a lot is that what you feel like
a screw-up
yeah that's in there alright
it's like i'm in such a good position
too uh
you know my mother is taking care of all
the the financial [ __ ]
she she's like she's doing so well like
it's that thing to where i saw you talk
about in one of your interviews when you
don't have to do something it's you know
harder to get yourself to do it because
on a financial stand gabriel do you feel
like a deadbeat
you know what that term means
yeah i know what it means but i won't go
that far okay
how far would you go
um someone who's
very actively wasting their time i don't
know like what word i would use
actively
let me see if i understand you here so
it sounds like you know you get an a for
effort but certainly not an a for
results
yeah pretty much
so is that something that feels distant
from you
that feeling
i would say so yeah everything is just
so numb the negative the positive it's
like
it's all equally hard to get to yeah
so here's what i think is going on i
think we got close
um i i i don't know so this is the kind
of thing where like i think i could
bludgeon you
into emotion
like i could do things like i could call
you
the things that you have called yourself
in those dark moments and i'm pretty
sure the emotion will come
roaring out i think a lot of stuff is
gonna come roaring out
like the negative emotion is gonna come
out
and also like anger and hatred and like
like you're gonna get like you'll like
the ego is gonna come out
and you'll then it's going to be me and
you like you're going to be in the
garage i'm going to be upstairs
i'm going to pick up the drawer and i'm
going to throw it through the window
like the emotion is there does that make
sense
absolutely yes and so if we were
actually a cult and we were
at a retreat you know there may be some
utility to like having that kind of deep
emotional exploration
i don't know that this is the time or
the place or that i feel comfortable
heaping on you the abuse that it takes
to get you to feel
oh i i would actually like to go for it
if you're willing because
i think that's what i need i'm not so
sure
that i'm willing okay
because i i don't know that that'll i
understand that you're hungry for it
i don't know that it's gonna be good for
you
okay so like yeah
what do you think about that
i wasn't thinking anything i was just
getting a little suck
why are you sad
but because it's like you said i feel
like i really need this but
you know
yeah so there's something important
there right so like
when i say that you're not gonna get it
what am i sentencing you to
just going back to my daily routine of
you know kind of trying to do it myself
and it never works
and how so like how do you feel then
right so i i think that as we get to
this because like here's what i'm
hearing from you okay
it's like you're doing all the good
stuff
right and like you have a lot of
patheticness in you
but you've learned how to like manage
that in a positive way
right you're like i'm gonna devote
myself to growing and i'm gonna put my
life together
and so you're almost in a sense putting
on a mask like it's the mask of like i'm
gonna be
someone like this is the road that i
have to walk and see
look everyone look at how much social
anxiety i've cured dr k i came on like
i've cured i've been cured of social
anxiety i've been watching
watching your videos for two months and
like look at me look at how
how much i'm growing can everyone
reassure me that i'm growing please
can we talk about how much progress
we've made
and i played right into it right i was
like oh gabriel you're level two bro
you're not level one so you came in and
you asked me to play a part and i played
a part with you
which is that gabriel is growing
but behind that is like this little
thing right this little voice in the
back of your head which is like it's not
gonna work
because like the person who's doing it
like we can pretend all we want to we
can have an a for effort we can check
all the boxes
but something fundamentally is [ __ ]
and that fundamental thing is me
and you can pretend all you want to
gabriel we're gonna do all this stuff
and like at the end of the day like
there's just me
who's always known that there's a
problem and like i've
never been able to do anything about it
there's powerlessness
right and there's like all kinds of
other notes here of like
you know you love your mom your mom has
been the one person who has like
you know been there for you and also
you blame her the most
and then like that creates conflict too
because like if you
like that's crazy like your dad is the
one who deserves the blame
your stepfather is the one who deserves
the blame but
who is the person who let those people
in
right who is responsible for protecting
you
from her like from those people and so
it can like it can feel really confusing
to like blame and feel resentment
towards like the one person who's good
in your life
and then what ends up happening is like
somewhere in there like you're not going
to blame your mom dude because that's a
dick move
so there's like one punching bag that
you've got left which is yourself
and so like all of the blame that that
like she deserves like i
i'm just gonna tell you you redirect it
to yourself like does that make sense to
you
like i think i
i could have been stronger i could have
stood up for myself
yep right so like like any time i try to
blame her
you're gonna say like i should have been
stronger
like you're gonna protect her by blaming
yourself
what are you feeling
actual sadness for the first time in
london
and i'm very happy about it ironically
right so like now like the dam is
opening up and like
everything is coming out yeah
happiness there's
there's there's anger about my father
and my stepfather but also with me for
not standing up to them
and there's frustration of the things i
had to go through and have
nobody to talk to talk those things
through with anybody because
i didn't have friends like that
so going through it is bad enough going
through it alone
yeah i also like
the the few friends i had they would
usually be trained as well
i remember telling some very personal
things that this elementary friend of
mine
that he just like exposed me to the
whole class for no reason
oh sure he had a reason
yeah i just don't know what it was i
think he's wanted to be a dick right
he wanted to take advantage of you he's
being a bully well
pretty much and the [ __ ] the thing is he
was also like a
another isolated student like me so
maybe he wanted to feel powerful for a
day on
there's your intellectual mind
so notice that every one of those
statements you make you're going to move
further away from
the emotion yeah i do with that don't
die i never
just now be careful because now we're
getting very
like meta because do you beat yourself
up for doing that
because like you like it from my
feelings yeah
absolutely yes see
so you got to be careful okay
so like i i know it sounds a little bit
unsatisfying and if you want to feel
more we can
we could go for round two if you really
want to
i i'm not sure i'm just confused i don't
know what would be good for me anymore
yeah so here's what i think would be
good for you okay
so i i think that you have worked very
hard
to turn the dials on your emotions way
down
because like in the span of like what do
you feel nothing what do you feel
nothing what do you feel uh
some anger in there how do you know i
don't know and then like in 30 seconds
it's like
anger relief right you said happiness i
think it's relief
really yeah is that like oh i actually
can
feel like this is what i've been going
for right like but there's also like
sadness and like self-loathing and like
loneliness
which we really haven't heard at all in
any of your narratives
right of like reaching out to people
like for support
and like you know them really like
stabbing you in the like there's there's
just a lot of betrayal
like just of so many dimensions
you know like your grandmother not
teaching you like just
kind of abandoning you and then like
like you know like
giving you bad habits like that's
the other thing like i i think you
probably let yourself
blame them for screwing you up
but then what happens is then you tell
yourself like any time your mind is like
it's their fault for like
because we can hear that right like your
grandmother should have done a better
job
but then what you end up doing is you
step right into it and you're like oh
but i could have been stronger
yeah it's always about me
right and so it's really interesting
because like gabriel i think the reason
that you're stuck
is because the person responsible is not
actually responsible like if i blame
myself
singularly for global warming and
climate change
then like i'm never gonna be at peace
because
i can't single-handedly fix the planet
and you're doing this thing where like
it always comes back to you
and i think the first thing you've got
to start with is like self-loathing
right because i i mean i think it's like
there's a lot there
that like you really detest about
yourself
you know there's a part of you that like
rationally says yeah it's other people's
fault
but then there's a part of you that's
like no it isn't
yeah you're just like screwed up or
something wrong with you
yep right and to sit with that thing
is like really hard
right so in a weird go ahead at some
point you know that's just the
conclusion you come to because
your family is beating on you the school
students are beating on you
just like every person so it must be me
right
yeah that is the conclusion you come to
like i guess these people are right i'm
just i'm just too loud i'm just
too outgoing i don't keep to myself
enough it's just
you know and uh well one particular
thing that
my mother my cousin told me once when i
was like playing video games there
with them is that i used to play games i
would like
stand up next to the couch like doing
little hops with the controller in my
hand like i was very energetic
and a bunch of other kids were there too
and she was like
why can't she be like the other kids it
was like
i was too young to even know what that
meant you know i was just like
what the [ __ ] does that mean it can't be
like the other kids don't know
oh sure you know what that meant
what that meant is why can't you be
normal why do you have to be screwed up
in some way
you understand exactly what that meant
yeah
it's sunk everyone's just everyone's
just like playing sitting down
though i'm the only one doing everyone
else is living their lives and they're
screwed up gabriel
hopping around gabriel
homosexual gabriel
right like it like everyone looked at
you and they saw like they weren't sure
what it was
but they knew something was wrong that's
like really the one conclusion
the chicks i fell in love with it was
the same sentiment as well
yep right
how are you feeling about this
conversation
oh it's definitely cracking the shower
i'm enjoying it
it's weird it's it's yeah it's like you
said it's relief
it's still hard like the tears don't
really come out they're just like
you know there's camping here so gabriel
dude we don't want to take a
sledgehammer to your psychological
defense mechanisms
as much as like we're gonna do relief
like a little bit at a time okay
okay you have to like build up a
tolerance to it
like irritable in this i feel
very confident that like
you know it's sort of like like if i'm
if i'm learning yoga for the first time
i don't bend all the way
i'll break something or snap something
and the mind ain't no different
right so like you have to like let your
mind gain that flexibility like you're
not right like i know you want it
like i get that you want the full relief
yeah and so like we're gonna like teach
you how to like handle a little bit at a
time
okay oh yeah that totally makes sense
i was just sitting here thinking like
well the thoughts came to my mind now
i'm not sure what i was thinking anymore
but
i was in agreement with what you're
saying i was gonna make an example i
don't remember anymore
it's okay good so we're short-circuiting
your mind which is good
so that means that your intellectual
like crap up here is like
not able to function because there's
like a motion that's down below which is
exactly
so that's good okay so like you'll
gabriel like you'll get there man
like you don't need to even even there's
even another layer of like
don't judge yourself for not being able
to get there
all at once right you're walking your
journey
and so like it's okay to like feel a
little bit of emotion
feel a little bit i get you want more
you'll get there man like i have
complete faith in you
okay you'll start to feel again you know
and you're just gonna need a little bit
of help like and that's okay
because let's be honest you weren't
given a whole lot of help for like
what sounds like the first few decades
of life okay
pretty much i'm 23 now and and if your
solace and bright point of your life was
sa dota like
yeah it was so good and i actually had
an offer to be like people to invite me
now i'm not trying to like suck my baby
but
people still invite me even though like
i haven't played for months i got a
thing off or not
i don't know i just don't feel like
playing
yeah so now
we oh okay i mean so i we stepped into
the ring twice
i'm hesitant to step into the ring a
third time i feel like
that size what we're looking for that's
our limit okay
you feel okay with that yeah how's
how's your disappointment
it's long okay good right so i i know
that earlier when i said i don't know if
we can get there you felt disappointed
it's cool like that's fine
it's all part of the game yeah so that
it was like
it was like a little voice in my head
like oh no even dr k
can't help it so yeah yep right so so
like that's like
we triggered that you know i'm
broken.exe
and so you came here with that that you
know the like oh could dr k will help me
like
and oh my god like he can't oh my god
i'm screwed and then it's okay
we'll get there okay yeah
so so now i if it's okay with you if
you're really feeling okay with it i
mean if you want to go round three we
can
try to each round we go it's going to be
trickier for me to do in one setting
because i have to like
squirt skirt past some of your you know
intellectual stuff but i think it's if
you're feeling okay with it two rounds
of relief like i'd like to share a
couple of concepts with you if that's
okay
yeah absolutely
what's going on i said i accidentally
said squirt instead of skirt
and twitch chat is having a field day
with me
i noticed but i was like whatever yeah i
know
um so so here's the first thing that i
want to say gabriel okay so
what so you were kind of talking about
how like you experienced anxiety and
panic attacks and underneath was
depression
right yeah and you kind of call it
depression because you're maybe not
feeling sad but you don't have any
motivation there are problems with your
concentration things like that
so this is the first thing to understand
trauma
is the great chameleon of mental illness
because it can look like and manifest as
anything
so one of my teachers once told me that
if anyone has
three separate diagnoses
all of them are wrong and chances are
it's trauma
so like any time i work with someone who
says i was dealing with anxiety first
and then i
fixed the anxiety and i found depression
you're going to fix the depression too
and you're going to find something else
that's like that's exactly the feeling i
was describing to some people i'm like
the more it fits the more [ __ ] i find it
just like
it's and that that's trauma in short
okay so trauma is the great chameleon of
of mental illness like it just manifests
as all these different kinds of things
it's like it's like morphing where like
one minute it's this thing
and then it's gonna turn into something
else and then it's gonna turn into
something else
the good news is that even though it
changes
shape on you that usually means you're
making progress
and at the end of the day if you can get
to the root of the trauma
all of the individual symptomatic
manifestations will fall apart
and this is where we have to talk a
little bit about the western system of
psychiatry right
because these are symptomatic diagnoses
when i say you have
anxiety that is not about a root it's
about a symptom
oh i get nervous and sweaty when i speak
in front of people i feel tightness in
my throat when i queue up for a game of
dota good god bro i'm so sorry
like dona's our last bastion from panic
attacks and anxiety
and you're so screwed if you don't even
have that
right but it's a symptom it's not like a
root it's not like you have you know
dota is not the root of your mental
illnesses it may be the root of other
people's mental illnesses
but in yours it's a symptomatic
manifestation
and this is why people get saddled with
like multiple diagnoses
i'm sure that someone will diagnose you
with anxiety someone will diagnose you
with panic attacks
someone will diagnose you with
depression someone will definitely
diagnose you with adhd
and at the root of it all is trauma
and so like as trauma manifests in
different ways
our diagnostic system
because it focuses on symptoms will end
you up with like four diagnoses on your
chart if you're not careful
okay but at the bottom of it is trauma
so let's talk a little bit about like
you know what happens in trauma and
how these different things happen so if
we really listen to you what we hear
is really one problem which is that
you're busted
there's something fundamentally broken
with you right
and for women it's one thing you went
down the in-cell route right so you
could have gotten diagnosed with
in-cell syndrome you know when it comes
to
like school it may have been something
else when it comes to dota like it's
something else like the one message that
you've gotten over and over and over
again is like you're busted and broken
in some fundamental way
and where does that come from so it
comes from trauma and very specifically
where does it come from
so when you're a child or an infant
really because do you know if you were
physically abused when you were like one
year old two years old things like that
i cannot remember but i would not post
it but i would not put it past my father
sure so like this is essentially what
happens when you're now your
philosophical scientific self is gonna
love this [ __ ]
okay so when you are young
there's this thing called theory of mind
which is the realization that
other human beings exist okay
so when you're very young you don't
realize that other human beings exist
like your brain really doesn't have that
capacity as we get a little bit older
like as we become a toddler like let's
say
two years old three years old four years
old we start to realize there are other
organisms
like so like when you're an infant when
you're one year old
you're a single player in a sandbox game
there aren't even npcs
and then like when you're five years old
you sort of start to realize oh there
are npcs in the world
and then like when you become an
adolescent this is why adolescence is so
terrifying
you start the process of discovering
these aren't npcs
this is actually an mmo with other
players
and that everyone is their own pc in
their own world
and as we become adults and hopefully if
we become empathic and stuff
we begin to realize that there are all
these other people in the world
and so the interesting thing is once we
realize there are other people in the
world
and something goes wrong whose fault can
it be
all the yours so that's what you
think because but when once pcs exists
right like
once other people are this is exactly
like
you answer the question incorrectly
which shows us the problem and shows us
your thinking
because once two people exist in the
world responsibility can be on
either one but if you're a solo player
in a sandbox game
whose fault is it it can only be your
fault
so this is what we see in trauma and
it's actually like very well studied now
and we sort of know this
that because of theory of mind if i'm a
one-year-old child and i get hit whose
fault is it
it's my fault and if you think about it
if if
if we didn't think this way we could not
function as infants
so when i learn when i'm learning how to
walk and i stumble and fall
i have to think about what i need to do
differently i can't go around like
blaming my mom
for me stumbling and falling at the age
of one it's just you'll never learn
anything
and so like our brains are wired to
blame only ourselves which is why trauma
is so devastating
because when you get abused like the
pain that you
feel you think is your fault like every
time your dad hits you
you think you're doing something wrong
it's your fault it's your fault it's
your fault because you're the only thing
that exists in the world
and then we get to this like complex
where like you go through life
blaming yourself constantly
because early on like your mind is like
oh clearly like when i'm in pain it's my
fault because other people don't exist
and then you discover that formula that
form formula
gets you know not really hardwired but
it gets put in right protect mode so
it's hard to change
and then as you go through life that
formula gets reinforced
right when girls reject you
there's something wrong with me there's
something wrong with me there's
something yeah something wrong with me
i was just about to say it makes a lot
of sense for me because back when i was
an insult that's
exactly what would happen it's like like
girls would reject me and i'm like
what did i do wrong just because they
weren't into me like doesn't necessarily
mean anything i know that now
but back then yeah so then what happens
is we have the trauma
and then our intellectual mind comes up
with all the adaptations and protections
and defense
mechanisms which is what happens within
cells right so like i can't deal with my
sense that i'm doing something so wrong
so let me construct an external world
view that like deflects blame for myself
okay and this is where like you are just
misattributing blame right and left like
we're like because now
like when it comes to your mom you're
taking too much blame
and when it comes to incels like they're
attributing too much blame to the
outside world
right so like the point though is that
something about the responsibility
structure in your mind has gotten like
miswired and so we see this a lot
because like and this is why like it's
gonna keep on manifesting as weird
things as long as you're fundamentally
busted
it's going to manifest in particular
symptomatic ways
yeah that makes a lot of sense because
like for example i have all these
philosophical ethios that i said i
wanted to
write a book or like make some youtube
videos so i have them here on the
notebook and
what will usually happen is uh
would you allow me to like read a very
short stream
sure something that i wrote down that i
felt very good about and basically what
happens is
after enough time passes i'm like yeah
you know that good thing you wrote down
that you're proud of yeah it's trash you
know don't share it with anyone
that happens a lot so there's this thing
i wrote
i'm just gonna read it uh
take notice of your insecurities and
health reproductions of past events
by fixing this you will no longer be
anxious and require your ego to protect
you
so that's like like the type of things
that i write down and then you know i
can go deeper into it i'm
if i'm gonna make a video about it and
so i write these things down
and it depends on how good i i felt
about it like the more
the better i felt about the idea at the
moment it takes longer for that thought
to come
but eventually it comes like either a
couple hours or a couple days i'm like
yeah you know that thing you wrote down
yeah not like
it's obvious it's not there's no point
in sharing it
absolutely so now let's talk a little
bit about like principle number two
which
is how this trauma leads to a lack of
motivation
so like there's a there's an equation
that's going on in your head right like
you
you do something that you're proud of
and then that voice creeps up in the
back of your mind that then says
this is dumb because from a very young
age you were taught
that like you're fundamentally busted
right so when you get abused
and you start to like blame yourself for
the things that happened to you
which is the basic problem like that's
what you experienced through and through
then how can you ever be motivated
because what's the point
if you were fundamentally busted in even
your greatest
efforts are actually trash
why would you ever act
so this is where like you know when you
say there's a lack of motivation
absolutely so the motivation the lack of
motivation is because like human beings
our brain is wired to predict the
success
of an action and that's what causes us
to act
like i'm not gonna go you know try to
chop down a tree to get a glass of water
because my brain
says like it's absurd my brain's like
there's no point in doing that because
it'll never work
and so as long as you believe that thing
about yourself the motivation will be
not even hard to come by it'll be
impossible to come by it doesn't mean
that you can't act
right but like as as long as there's a
voice in your head
telling you any action you take is
worthless because it's never going to
amount to anything
it's going to be impossible to motivate
yourself so that's what we sometimes
call
depression because you're like i don't
know what to call this thing so i'mma
call it depression
right which is fair it's like it's the
experience of depressed people but i
think that depression is actually like a
complicated
term that can actually lead to like
if you follow depression down to its
roots we're going to see multiple things
and what i'd say is if you're struggling
with motivation and you have a history
of trauma
the key thing that will really just
shatter that apart in the same way that
we like
you know cracked your damn and like all
kinds of emotions came out
sadness anger relief happiness like what
the hell is going on
the system will fall apart and in the
same way your lack of a
motivation will also just like it'll
just crumble man
that feels very good to hear yeah if you
can change your perception of yourself
and that's where we get into like all
kinds of other things because
if you can't change into your perception
of yourself whose fault is it
mine absolutely it'll keep going okay so
be careful for it
but i've seen it happen and in the same
way that all the emotions will come
rushing out
like you'll just start to feel motivated
because there's a point to you acting
then motivation will come but in order
for there to be a point
in you acting you have to have like some
degree of like
compassion and faith in yourself that
you can do it
and that's a slow journey and in your
case it starts with learning how to feel
and also like crazy yeah
it's crazier mentioning this because
it's like it's like i was saying i can
see an inner knee
like i know what he's like he's very
like charismatic
good with people he has lots of friends
like he just goes and does
things and he sparkle when i'm dipping
to meditation i can
see that person inside myself so what
you're saying makes a lot of sense that
i need to try and get to him because all
this shit's in the way
yeah and if you want to go even deeper
you don't need to get to him he's
already there
it's your effort to try to get to him
that creates the sense of incapability
oh i'm chasing an idea oh [ __ ]
right so this is where like like it's
weird
but as long as you're trying to get to
him
you're not him and what makes you not
him is like
not being him you know does that sound
kind of weird i completely understand
because i'm all about the philosophical
[ __ ] so i got
it you you get me so it's it's the chase
for the goal
that actually it becomes the
self-fulfilling prophecy
because you don't need to be any
different gabriel that dude's there bro
you're there we've seen him today
you've always been you it's [ __ ] up
because people tell me that all the time
they're like they can see like my
charisma and my whatever and i'm just
like
nah i don't think it's there right but
you know it's there
it's the fact that you can't see it
that moves it away
yeah that's that's exactly what happens
yeah absolutely
and you know it's like you were saying
as long as i chase it so i'm not going
to get to it i just need to pee
i completely understand and it reminds
me of you know
uh vegeta chasing goku he's like he
never gets up he catches love because
he's just chasing
yeah and this is where where there's um
you know i think like the last thing
i'll kind of leave you with
is this sort of idea from like like this
is why like when we we look at
enlightenment
there's all the zen masters will say
that we're already enlightened
we actually don't need you can't become
enlightened you can't
become anything there's just what is
and so like the the first thing that a
zen master does when they become
enlightened is laugh
because and someone asked him why are
you laughing like a crazy person like
this has all been a
gargantuan waste of time i didn't need
to do any of it
i was already perfect and so even when
we say
enlightenment we will also translate it
as realization
realization is not about gaining
something new
right it's you already have it you just
realize it
yeah it's noticing what is
right so like when you meditate and you
feel that
perfect you that's not a perfect you
it's you
and as long as you think of it as a
perfect you you will by definition
create and imperfect you the two come
handily yeah
yeah because i will be the one that is
not
that yep so as long as there's
this you're going to create a vat and
since you love the philosophical stuff
that is the root of advaita vedanta
if you know what that is it's
non-dualism which is like the
major yogic philosophy that i tend to
teach from
international families yeah so i'll oh
so it's a d v a i t a
v a d a n t a i'll message you in
discord
okay but but it's sort of this idea that
like you know there's just a one thing
and
everything else is an artificial
construction that's created from the
mind
and i think when you as you start to
like you know meditate and stuff you'll
begin to understand
so this is a philosophy that wasn't
developed as a philosophy it wasn't
developed as an intellectual exercise
it was devel it was the way that people
tried to put into words the experiences
of meditation
makes sense so you know
any questions
uh not really i think you've taught me a
lot
because you're definitely right on the
thing that you know i wasn't trying to
come across that way as
smart as when i joined but i definitely
had this whole
thing of you know i've learned a lot
i've done all these things and
blah blah blah and you've helped me see
something that i could not see so that's
the biggest gift i could ask for
well i'm happy to give it so i'm gonna
leave you with a meditation
practice and and i guess i'm going to
leave it for everyone i don't know that
many people are going to be able to do
it very easily
but like gabriel this is the main thing
you need to learn when you meditate
and you find your perfect self i want
you to just
sit between your perfect self and your
imperfect self
so every time you tell yourself you are
incapable
that should become your meditation and i
want you to look at that and realize
like
why do i feel imperfect now
and when you meditate and you feel that
true you
why do you feel like that's the true you
like because if you really want to
overcome this you need to understand
like
what is the true you so every time you
feel incapable
sit with it every time you meditate sit
with it in the same way
be non-judgmental don't prefer one over
the other
and for those of you who have experience
with meditation i would encourage you to
do the same thing right so like
when we meditate we sometimes see a
version of ourself that we try to
gravitate towards
why do we prefer that person as opposed
to this person what's the difference
i want you to swim in that space between
perfection and imperfection
sounds hard but i know what you're
saying yep
and so what you'll discover i'll give
you a little do you want to hint
yes please so what you'll discover
this is the real thing it says you swim
between perfection and improv
like there's the perfect you and there's
the imperfect you right
hopefully one day you'll realize who the
[ __ ] is doing the swimming
that's a very good question
huh
no i don't have a philosophical [ __ ]
answer this time so good because you're
never going to have one
it's impossible so that's good so then
that's the meditation practice for you
so at the edge of
philosophy i'm not saying philosophy is
bad it's definitely very useful
but at the edge of philosophy comes
subjective experience
because philosophy is like the
translation of it's the objectification
of subjective experience
that we try to transmit between each
other so by all means like do philosophy
dude write your book
share your thoughts because i genuinely
think they have value i think you need
to work on them
right so thank you but that means a lot
coming from you because i'm definitely
felt
like i didn't know you wanted to write a
book on philosophy but like within the
first five minutes i thought the way
that you put things together
is like quite good it's like
instagram calendar level tweet
level deep shower thoughts yeah
so that's just i am very smart
i've done so much introspection and gone
through so much that i want to share
this with other people pretty much so
that's how we see it
i i think it's fine to share but i would
really
learn be a master of it before you share
it don't share a half-baked thing
it's like that right so like devote
yourself to this and then like
absolutely write a book but like it
should be packaged complete and thorough
okay i'll take that advice yeah
thank you thank you guys so much for
having me
thank you man see you chad see ya
okay chat tricky one was gabriel